---
layout: post
author: Dayeol Lee
title: Projects
---

This post is a living document, so will be kept up-to-date.

# Projects

### Open-source Secure Enclave
I'm building an open-source platform for [trusted execution
environment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trusted_execution_environment)
(TEE), based on [RISC-V](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RISC-V) infrastructure.
Secure hardware enclave provides strong integrity and confidentiality guarantee 
so that the remote users can securely execute their applications in the cloud.
However, no full-stack implementation of hardware enclave has been open-sourced 
until today. The goal of this project is to make TEE accessible to everyone in the industry
and the academia in order to build an open standard for secure enclave design,
which is applicable to a wide range of threat models.

### Physical Attack on Intel SGX
I'm trying to defeat Intel SGX with a physical attack. (Details will be added)

### FPGA-Accelerated Full-Stack System Simulation
I'm involved in [FireSim](fires.im) project. FireSim simulates a warehouse-scale
computer system having thousands of nodes with FPGAs in Amazon AWS.
I think it is a ground-breaking framework for datacenter research.
Check out the [website](fires.im)!

This work has been published in ISCA 2018.

*FireSim: FPGA-Accelerated Cycle-Exact Scale-Out System Simulation in the Public Cloud*  
  Sagar Karandikar, Howard Mao, Donggyu Kim, David Biancolin, Alon Amid, Dayeol Lee, Nathan Pemberton, Emmanuel Amaro, Colin Schmidt, Aditya Chopra, Qijing Huang, Kyle Kovacs, Borivoje Nikolic, Randy Katz, Jonathan Bachrach, and Krste Asanović

### Neuromorphic simulation
The brain consists of billions of neurons, which have been of special interest to
neuroscientists due to their ability to communicate with others using electrochemical signals called *spikes*.
They are believed to be the generator of various functions of the brain.
Although there is still no consensus about how the brain encodes information with the spikes,
it is evident that the brain employs temporal information such as spike timing or frequency.

*[Spiking neural network](https://en.wi/kipedia.org/wiki/Spiking_neural_network)* 
has been used to simulate the brain.
SNNs incorporate the concept of *time* into neurons by modeling each neuron 
with time-varying state variables associated with several differential equations.

In this project, I analyzed common primitives of existing neuron models and
designed an ASIC accelerator that can efficiently simulate a wide range of neuron models by 
exploiting those primitives.
The accelerator is highly flexible than the other ASIC accelerators, and also enables
orders-of-magnitude efficient simulation than the general purpose processors.

This work has been published in ISCA 2018.
  
*Flexon: A Flexible Digital Neuron for Efficient Spiking Neural Network Simulations*  
 Dayeol Lee, Gwangmu Lee, Dongup Kwon, Sunghwa Lee, Youngsok Kim, and Jangwoo Kim

